Research your sector and pick a winner.
How do we do that, okay?
Now, I'm gonna be honest,
this is the most boring part, right?
It involves Excel spreadsheets, okay?
This is not gonna be fun people,
but buckle in, we'll try and
keep it to a minimum, and
this is worth doing, right?
I promise you this is worth doing.
We're going to basically create two lists,
okay?
So you've got a sector in your head
that you think is approximately right.
And we're going to give it a go or
maybe you've got three sectors
that you're not sure about.
So we could do this exercise for
all three, so for each of your sectors,
you wanna create two lists.
The first list is influencers and
I want just to write individuals and
I don't like using the word influencers,
cuz it sounds so frigging pretentious.
But I can't think of a better word.
So individuals, events,
blogs, communities,
membership organizations,
that last one is a doozy actually.
These membership organizations, cuz they
list all their members on their site, and
that's invaluable for
kind of seeing who's in the sector.
So look for all of those online, right?
So you wanna collect a basically,
the name of all of these people and
their URLs, okay?
Then you wanna create a separate list,
which is a list of perspective
clients that you'd like to work with
within the sector, dream dreams.
Who would you like to work with within
that particular sector and again,
write a company name down,
URL down, easy peasy.
Just a quick reminder of what we want
to know about the sectors that we're
considering.
We wanna know what conferences they do.
Do they have small scale meetups?
Do they have on and offline publications?
Are there mailing lists or forums?
Can you find any influences?
So as you're compiling the list,
bear all of that in mind, right?
Now, once you've done that,
you now looking for
some of the key players within the sector,
right?
So those might be individuals, or
publications or that that kind of thing.
So how do you find that that
influencer list, if that makes sense.
Well, I mean, obviously,
you can just Google it, but
also talk to any contacts you've
got in the sector already, right?
If you've got existing clients in
the sector, talk to them, right?
Ask what publications they read,
what events they attend and
what communities they participate in.
So that will help start off
your influencer list, right?
Then you can turn to search, right?
Search for your sector combined with
words like conference meetup, members,
organizations, blogs,
that kind of thing, right?
So you might go, I don't know university
conferences, university blogs,
that kind of thing.
Also, when you do those searches
pay attention to who's advertising
on that those keywords, because those
are people that have got money.
And so add them to your list as well,
right?
Another technique, now, this is somebody
asked about LinkedIn earlier and
how I use LinkedIn.
One of my favorite ways of using
LinkedIn as a research tool, right?
Everybody seems to focus on I'm
going to spam LinkedIn with
social media updates and whatever.
Okay, fair enough, there is a place for
that, I'm not, dismissing that and
we'll actually come on to that later.
But actually,
it's more valuable as a research tool
to actually search on the sector that
you're after and see who comes up.
What people come up.
So I use social a lot, not just LinkedIn,
either Twitter to find influencers,
companies, membership organizations,
and other groups and
sector, social can be really,
really good for that.
Okay, so that's how you find your
influencers and fill out that list.
Then you've got to find some
prospective clients that maybe you'd
like to work with.
So I would aim to identify about 30 to
50 specific organizations that you'd
like to work with within the sector.
So it doesn't need to
be an enormous number,
but it needs to be a significant number.
Start with companies you already know, and
like and would really like to work with.
So there might be, let's say you were
targeting environmental charities.
You might really wanna
work with Greenpeace,
great, put them down, no problem.
Then I would suggest you add any
recommendations for personal contacts.
So if you've got somebody
already within the sector,
ask him who else is worth working with or
worth reaching out to, inclued them.
And any connections you've
already got on LinkedIn,
it's surprising what like not
maybe direct contacts you've got.
But second or third degree contacts
to various companies within
the sector you're after,
great, include those.
And then turn to Google search for
the rest to bulk out the rest of the list,
right?
So what we've ended up with then
just to recap is our two lists.
Each list has got company name, or
blog name, or influence and a URL, okay?
So influences list, client list,
that's not enough in itself, right?
We need to be able to identify
the initial contact point,
who are we going to reach out
to within these organizations?
Right, you've got your two lists, but
we need specific people we can contact
within these organizations, okay?
So you can make an educated guess about
the role of the person that you want
to contact based on what
services you offer, right?
So in my case, I'm looking for
customer service director,
marketing director, head of digital,
people like that, right?
If you're more development focused,
it might be the head of IT.
It might be head of analytics, or data
management or that kind of thing, right?
So ideally, we want to kind of
connect with a very specific person
in the company rather than just using
their generic contact address, right?
Because that will go through to some
kind of customer service team and
that's not really gonna help us very much,
we need a specific person.
So we need to identify the role
that that of that person and
we need to make an educated
guess about that.
Now, the role will be
very much dependent upon
the organization sallies as well as,
who you're trying to reach.
So their size or
structure in their sector.
So for example, in smaller companies,
you might go for the founder, right?
Cuz that's gonna be the key
decision maker in most places.
If it's a single product company,
then if you offer design any kind
of services or web services,
you're probably gonna want to talk to
a digital lead or head of marketing.
If it's more developing services,
probably gonna be the head of IT or
like I said, data management.
Now, for multiple product companies,
it gets a lot more complicated, right?
So if you're trying to target Nestle
that you've got like dozens and
dozens of companies.
You're gonna need to pick particular brand
names that you go for and do it that way.
I would avoid that to begin with
until you get a bit slicker at this,
because it turns into a nightmare.
If you don't know what you're doing.
So we kind of got a roll,
we got the company.
Now, we find the right name,
we've got to find a person here.
Well, once again,
that's where LinkedIn comes in, right?
Once we know the role of the person
that we wanna contact and
we've got their company information,
it's as simple as a LinkedIn search.
Most of the time that will
get you where you need to be.
Alternatively, you can search
on the company website.
They often list senior members of
management on their website or
via Google, right?
So you search head of marketing, or
director of marketing,
or marketing leads and
different combinations till you get
to the kind of person you're after.
If you can't find a name, that's okay,
reach out to somebody within
the same company and ask them.
I'm trying to work out who
the head of marketing is.
It's surprising how helpful
people are as long as you say,
I'm trying to contact
the head of marketing.
Because I'm running a research project,
you don't say,
because I want to sell some shit, right?
And, of course, then you can't sell stuff,
you do need to be honest about it.
Failing that, try emailing the catch
all email address and asking them.
So most companies will have
a inquiries at whatever.
You can drop them an email, although,
they tend to be pretty more cautious about
handing out people's contact information.
Alternatively, just give up and
try another role or another company,
don't beat yourself up over,
it's not really worth it.
So we're getting there now.
We've identified our companies or
our influences,
cuz this approach applies to both.
We've identified the role that we
wanna reach out to in each case.
I found the name of the person, so now,
it comes to actually contacting them.
And so we wanna contact of their email,
how do we get their email address?
Okay, there's a couple of ways, right?
You could make a guess of their email
address, by looking at email address of
anybody else in the company and
extrapolating it, right?
It's really, really simple, because if
it's formatted first name dot last name,
then you're good to go,
you could even validate that.
There's a tool called Email hippo,
there'll be a link in the slides to that,
where you can actually go in and
validate that it's real email
address which is great.
The tool the way that I only do
it is slightly different to say,
cuz it saves me time.
I use a page tool,
I got it for a one off payment,
I think of $35 and
some deal that they were doing.
Where you can look up, it kind of
looks up email addresses for you and
works out what they are.
It's called findthatlead.com, that said,
increasingly, I'm just using LinkedIn.
Instead of using email, I reach out
to people via LinkedIn instead.
Now, you will have to sign up for
their kind of paid service to do that.
Because LinkedIn, unless, you've got
already a contact with the person,
they don't let you send
a direct message to them.
Although, sometimes I've just
sent a connection request and
put in the connection request.
I'm working on a research piece and I'd
love your feedback, and see what happens.
So you don't necessarily, and
LinkedIn is just a great way.
I find people very
approachable over LinkedIn,
almost better than email
in some cases these days.
So there's a little bit about
defining your audience and
how we're gonna contact the audience.
I'm gonna talk you through the specifics
of contacting them in a minute.
But that kind of gives you
the how we get the list part.
So let's just recap that, and
then we'll do any questions
about that before we move on.
So you got research sector,
you're looking for
a sector which has got cultural
sharing and interaction.
You wanna create a list of companies
that you'd like to work for and
influences within that sector.
Then you wanna identify the role within
the organization that you should be
contacting.
Find the name of the person with that role
via LinkedIn, via Google search, etc.
And find their email address or LinkedIn
profile, and contact them that way.
So at the end of all that,
you're gonna end up with
a spreadsheet with company name,
company URL, role,
person's name, person's email or
LinkedIn profile.
That's the boring bit done,
any questions about that?
Incredibly painful and boring, and
process that you've got to go through.
By the way you only have to do
that probably every three years.
So [LAUGH] it's not
gonna be an ongoing one.
Anything from the chat room or
from you guys?
>> Do you use any other paid services that
help you with the lead like databases or?
>> Yeah, there are many paid services
that help with a lot of this stuff, but
to be honest, I don't like a lot of them.
A lot of them are really designed about,
okay,
we're gonna harvest a load of
email addresses and spam them.
So they're not designed for
this very targeted approach of these
specific individuals I wanna
reach out to on a personal basis.
And I feel that considering the kind
of services we offer in the way that we
operate and the level in which we operate.
That kind of, it doesn't work in any
way I think is yucky and horrible.
So no.
>> And those conferences that you go to.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, so your plan is to be
a speaker not to get a booth, that's.
>> It's not off the table a booth,
I don't favor that.
Because I'm tight, I don't like paying
money, if I can be somewhere for free.
But at the moment,
you almost don't need to worry about
is web where we're in this process.
You're not even necessarily thinking
about I'm gonna attend these events, or
speak at them or doing a booth,
we just need to know what they are.
>> Just go to them and
get information and-
>> Get, all we need at the moment, yeah.
>> Find the leads.
>> Yeah, we're very early stage,
we can worry about that when we get to the
grow your list bit which will be later on.